---
layout: post
title: "Mid-year Thoughts"
categories: thoughts
author: "Ayham Hasan"
---
# Progress
Welcome readers. I have been absent for some time on this site.

Finishing off my latest semester at school has really breathed some much needed passion and work ethic for me. The whole "online only" classes didn't really phase me other than missing being able to sit in the cafe's. But, since I started my summer internship developing various tools, it's good to be busy. 

###Some further developments and topics

Since my investments into my hobbies has become more invovled as I'm now able to dive into them more, I will most likely update this website layout to support more than just a static blog. But that will be pretty involved of a migration to do for me (not the most handy web developer), so that is to look forward to towards the end of the year. 

Some topics that interest me to read further on is to pick up the C++ language (which from first glance seems very similar to Java, minus some of the lower level applications of it), and possibly some surface level information about data algorithms and structures (as a preface to the data structures course I'm taking this fall).

###The Linux Story

GNU/Linux (or GNU+Linux...however you want to call it) has always been an interest to me since I first heard of this mystical operating environment that was "free". What did free mean? That I didn't have to buy it or pay a company or have to do deal with the changes they make at the expense of my own interests? Younger me was confused but bewildered. It was also the first time I heard the term "open-source". 

After ignoring testing my curiousity, late 2019 brought in my love for the GNU/Linux environment. I must admit though, my focus was moreso about being able to make it look however I wanted - fufilling an aeshetic desire - rather than a technological standpoint. But after having it be my main development OS of choice (Manjaro/Arch is my favorite distro!), the fondness for that void left from Windows and macOS was filled. Nowadays, as 2020 rolled through (or should I say crashed down), I enjoy the sense of greater privacy, as well as being able to configure my terminal and other behaviors to fill my niche wants and desires. Hopefully one day, I'll be able to break free from the control I've let Microsoft hold onto my PC and be fully Linux invested, but that day is still approaching.

###Independent Projects

As I go further into my coursework into my Computer Science major, the time to consider my focuses need to become clear. I've always had the interest into the low level development of applications, operating systems, and data structures. As rigourous of a topic these are, these are where my passions lie - albeit at the surface level in which case it's my duty to dive further into the rabbit hole. Since the courses taken this fall are focused on the algorithmic theory and data strutures of coding, it's a good time as any in quarantine to do some personal projects surrounding this rhetoric.

My github will host repos of the work once I get around to it, so if anyone is interested in critqueing or just looking over my code will be free to. I will follow tutorials so I will not be claiming any code as my own, and the project files will have citations of where my work is referenced from, should it not be independently done. 


Having been coding in Python, JS, and HTML all summer - it would most certainly benefit me to get back into the swing of Java and C/C++.

Keep on the lookout for more posts and the eventual redesign of the site. Hopefully now that I'm not swarmed with work and assignments I can keep more active.
